THE GREAT WALL
HAS STOOD FOR CENTURIES
AS ONE OF MANKIND'S
MOST ENDURING WONDERS.
IT SPANS OVER 5500 MILES
AND TOOK MORE THAN 1700 YEARS
TO BUILD.
IT PROTECTED FROM MANY DANGERS.
SOME ARE KNOWN. SOME ARE LEGEND.
THIS IS ONE OF THE LEGENDS.
Najid. cut
the horses loose!
We have to turn back.
We have been riding
for six months.
And we've lost 20 men.
But we survived.
Yes. By chance.
Any one of us could
have met that same fate.
We were the strongest.
Remember why you're here.
In the West. we would be enemies.
and I would have to kill you.
At least here.
we have a common goal.
Oh. yes.
This black powder.
It turns air into fire.
And kills a dozen men
at one time.
It is the weapon
of our dreams.
And what if
it's just a myth?
Men have sent word
that it's real.
And those men are dead.
And we are next.
We have no maps.
no medicine
and no food.
No one is going back.
We take inventory
of what we have left
and finish
what we started.
There's not much here.
The moon is strong.
When the horses
are fresh. we move.
- To where?
- North.
If they keep after us.
we'll kill them in the mountains.
The magnet.
Too heavy.
Useless.
I'll have it.
It's all yours.
Amigo. only you would carry
a stupid magnet through the desert.
I can use it
to make a compass.
Rizzetti won't make it.
The wound is festering.
We'll be dragging
a corpse.
I heard that.
He's earned the right
to die where he wants.
I've been left
for dead twice.
It was bad luck.
For who?
The people who left me.
Maybe Rizzetti's right.
Where are they?
Hill tribes?
It's no man.
Then what is it?
Whatever it is.
it's hunting.
What was that?
I don't know.
I took its hand.
- We need to move.
- Agreed.
I'll take the hand with us.
What the hell for?
So someone can tell me
what I just killed.
Persistent bastards.
aren't they?
We'll take the rise.
make a stand there.
What a long shitting way to go to die.
Mother of God.
I have no need
to go down fighting.
Agreed.
I say we take our chances
with the gents in front of us.
I haven't surrendered
in a while. eh?
It'll come back
to you.
Follow my lead.
we'll be fine.
Of course.
my friend.
Where you go.
I follow.
You're doing such
a great job already.
All Commanders
to the Great Hall!
All Commanders report
to the General! Make way!
Make way!
Commander Lin
is needed immediately!
Calling Commander Lin!
Commander Lin
is needed immediately!
They know what it is.
And they don't
look happy to see it.
All the more reason to get the hell out of here.
Our weapons
are on that table.
Have you lost
your mind?
I can take out the guards
on the perimeter with my bow.
You cut the legs out
from under the officers.
I must confess. this is not my favorite plan.
Where was this found?
You speak English.
Fantastic.
Where was this found?
It wasn't found.
It was taken.
That thing killed three men
before we took it down.
Where?
Two days' ride.
North. in the mountains.
He says two days ride north.
in the mountains.
They claim to have killed it.
Two days?
Earlier than we expected.
Strategist Wang!
I'm listening. General.
The two of them killed it?
Two of you.
you did this?
Well...
I killed it.
Alone?
He claims to have
killed it alone.
By himself?
Impossible.
Tell me how.
A swing of the sword.
The hand.
it came away clean.
The beast fell back
into a chasm.
Why are you here?
We came to trade.
We were ambushed.
Guards!
You are soldiers.
Commander Lin.
Wait.
Mmm.
General.
They claim to be traders
who were ambushed.
These barbarians are liars.
Perhaps not.
They brought the claw here.
The wound is fresh.
There is green blood
on his sword.
Those prove his story.
To protect our secret...
we must kill them.
Eliminate the possibility
of trouble.
I agree.
We should kill them!
General.
Until we find the truth...
I advise we keep them alive.
Alert!
General. signals
from the smoke towers!
We are under attack!
Take them to the stockade.
All stations on full alert!
Are you killing us. sister?
Two lost travelers?
What's happening here?
Is this bitch
going to kill us?
I think she'd like that.
If it is death. my dear.
we need time to pray.
I'm trying here.
Sister. I know a siege
when I see one.
What comes at you so hard
you need a wall like this?
What the hell
did we kill out there?
Tao Tei.
You killed
a Tao Tei scout.
You killed it alone.
You're correct.
We are under siege.
But we did not expect
the attack for another nine days.
- Attack?
- Tao Tei.
What the hell
is a Tao Tei?
Many things about your story have importance.
You are not to die today.
- Hurry!
- I'm sorry. sir...
- I cannot find the key.
- Forget it!
Bring them to the Wall.
Keep an eye on them!
General.
It's finally happening.
Yes.
Sixty years preparing
for this moment.
The black are
the foot soldiers.
And the red?
Those are the archers.
And the blue?
They're all women.
What the hell
do they do?
Look at this army.
Have you ever seen
anything like this?
Incredible.
They look nervous.
It's a big wall
to be so nervous.
Do you hear it?
Long distance weapons!
Yes! Drums signal
long distance weapons!
Aim for the eyes!
Crane Corps attack!
William. over there.
Why isn't he tied up?
There's our escape.
General. There's the Queen!
She commands them!
Attack the Queen!
Close combat!
Yes! Close combat!
Drums signal close combat!
We need to move!
We need to move
or we die!
Go. go!
Go and fight!
Cut me loose!
Fight or run?
Run where?
Aim for the eyes!
William!
Hey! Bitch!
William.
I need a shot.
What god made
those things?
None that we know.
Think they'll
hang us now?
I could use the rest.
You fought well today.
You've earned
General Shao's praise.
Will they come back?
Yes.
All we can do
is prepare.
Take them to the barracks.
They need rest.
Yes!
Thank you for saving my life.
Commander Lin.
You grew up
in the Nameless Order.
I've taught you many things...
and you have been learning...
but they have
been learning also.
Strategist Wang warned
they are evolving.
No one listened.
The enemies
we're facing today...
are more intelligent
than sixty years ago.
Watch the foreigners closely.
They can never leave.
We must protect
the secrets of the Wall.
Yes. sir!
Who are you?
Easy.
I'm Ballard. Hmm?
William.
This is Tovar.
What are you doing here?
We came looking
for black powder.
I bet you did.
I came with mercenaries
for the same thing.
Twenty-five years ago.
And did you find it?
Finding it and leaving with it
alive are two different things.
You saved the west turret.
That was extremely diplomatic.
We weren't
being diplomatic.
We were trying
to stay alive.
You smell like animals.
Thank you.
Clean up
and they'll feed you.
He knows where the powder is.
Then why is he
still here?
He needs help
getting out?
Right.
We play our part.
take the powder
and go home.
I didn't sign up for this.
Which part?
Well. all of it.
But mostly the monsters.
There's a lot of them.
We really do smell.
General Shao welcomes you as honored guests
of the Nameless Order and thanks
you for your skill and courage.
We are honored
to be honored.
Is that the best
you've got?
General.
I couldn't help wondering...
why would such
an accomplished archer...
use such a primitive bow.
Commander Chen thinks your bow
is not worthy
of your skill.
Tell him there's no better weapon here.
He claims his weapon
is second to none.
Let him show us.
Give him some space!
They wish to see you shoot.
In here?
Unless he's afraid.
It's a large audience.
What was that?
He thinks you have fear.
Too many people.
Get one of the cups.
Now?
I want to eat.
You remember
how to do this?
Last time didn't go so good.
We were drunk.
How high?
Ten yards.
Six hands to the right.
Turn around.
No. I'll do it this way.
On my count.
Amigo...
One.
Two.
Three.
Pull.
Good luck with that.
I want food.
Who taught
you English?
Sir Ballard.
English and Latin.
Heard he's been here
for 25 years.
You won't
let him leave.
He must stay here.
What about us?
Pace yourself.
The meals
are regular here.
I hope not
to stay that long.
I like your thinking.
but I suggest you keep
your plans private.
You aren't
the first Westerners
to come here looking
for black powder.
We'll discuss it tonight.
Bring your partner.
How long
have you been here?
Always.
I was not five years old
when I came here.
I have no other family.
We're the same.
I was given to an army
before I can remember.
As a soldier?
Worse.
As a gleaner.
Packs of children. we'd clean the battlefields.
After. when the
fighting's over.
I became a page.
a pikeman's boy...
For your country?
No. I fought for food.
You fight to eat.
You live long enough.
you fight for money.
How many flags
do you fight for?
I don't know.
I fought for Harold
against the Danes.
I saved a Duke's life.
I fought for him until he died.
Fought for Spain
against the Franks.
Fought for the Franks
against Boulogne.
I fought for the Pope.
Many flags.
We are not the same.
Meet me on the Wall.
I have something to show you.
He should be
careful with her.
She's very powerful here.
Then it is a fair contest.
Come.
Hmm.
You wish to try?
Men are too heavy.
Do you think we can pull him up?
She says men
have so much to teach us.
I don't think
that's what she said.
You know what I think?
I think you're afraid.
You said that
this morning.
And yet.
here I am.
Yes.
Here you are.
Will you jump?
Or not?
These men know
what they're doing?
Wrong question.
Whether or not
the cable is attached.
that is the question.
And the answer?
Trust.
Xin ren.
Xin ren means trust.
To have faith.
Here. in this army.
we fight for more
than food or money.
We give our lives
to something more.
Xin ren is our flag.
Trust in each other.
In all ways.
at all times.
Well. that's all well and good.
but I'm not jumping.
I'm alive today
because I trust no one.
A man must learn to trust
before he can be trusted.
Then you were right.
We're not the same.
Stay vigilant!
The next attack is coming.
My God!
A taste. a glimpse.
A few pilfered grains from Strategist
Wang's supply of black powder.
He's mastered
the transmutation of these elements.
People speak
of a weapon.
There are many
weapons here.
Why have we
not seen them?
There are many
things you have not seen.
And many things you should
pray will not be needed
before the siege
is through.
The Tao Tei will return.
When the drums
call to battle.
the guards leave their posts and
take their positions on the Wall.
That is our moment.
We want to be
riding away
as the battle rages.
And the armory doors?
You have keys?
I have black powder.
Enough for
several doors.
He brings us in.
We get us out.
Strategist Wang
requests your presence.
As you fought.
where was this stone?
In my bag.
Its unseen force
is powerful.
I believe this strange stone could help us.
We try everything.
Where are the
Tao Tei now?
The mountains. regrouping.
Where do they
come from?
About 20 centuries ago.
there was an emperor whose greed
brought deep suffering to all of China.
The heavens sent the meteor
that struck Gouwu Mountain.
turning it green
and releasing the Tao Tei.
From that day on. the Tao Tei rise every 60 years
to scourge
the north of China.
They come to remind us of what
happens when greed is unchecked.
They eat anything.
alive or dead.
and take food
to their queen.
She depends on her soldiers to feed her.
Only with the food they
provide is she able to multiply.
The capital. and its two million
people. is only 800 li away.
If the Tao Tei ever had
that much nourishment.
no corner of the world
would be safe.
You can't hunt them?
Men try.
They disappear.
We never find
their bones.
Troops unaccounted for
at the West Tower!
Why did they leave the bodies?
Dismount!
Formation!
Advance!
Stop.
Commander Lin.
General...
They led us into a trap.
We underestimated their intelligence.
The Nameless Order...
is yours to command.
General...
Commanders.
this is my final order...
...from this day forward...
Commander Lin will lead you.
The soldiers of
the Nameless Order...
will stand firm.
The Wall must not fall!
We will defeat the Tao Tei!
Rest in peace.
Rest in peace!
This is envoy
Shen from the palace.
He has brought important records
to help with the coming battle.
This is a 900-year-old
battle report.
A 900-year-old battle report.
At the Hansha gates.
three beasts
mounted the Wall.
They killed many men
as they went forward.
Then. by the grace
of the ancient gods.
the beasts stopped...
...and sat peacefully as we slaughtered them.
There was a magnet on site
just like this one.
At the Hansha Gate.
was a magnet just like this one.
I believe that magnet was
the reason that two of you Westerners
killed the Tao Tei
so easily.
I believe the magnet
makes the Tao Tei deaf.
Without instruction.
they fall still.
How to prove it?
How can we be sure?
Why not try it?
Capture a Tao Tei.
See if it works.
He wants to try.
He wants to catch one.
How?
No net is strong enough.
Hunt them.
Like a whale.
You know what that is.
Uh... A water beast.
Hundred times
the size of a Tao Tei.
A spear that grabs. Hook the bone. Pull them up.
Use a spear. hook them.
So we can catch them.
I've seen it done in Spain.
He claims to have
seen it done in Spain.
What the hell
are you doing?
We need to be free
when the attack comes.
How many chances do you think we will get?
Be injured. Be missing. Be a coward.
Get out of this.
We did enough.
The mixture must be strong...
...to put the creatures
to sleep.
Spread it on evenly.
Yes. Commander!
Snap out of it!
Useless idiot!
Report to the kitchen
where you belong!
- Yes. Commander.
- Go!
He'll be here.
When?
When it's over?
We start
and he will find us.
Start?
We're jumping
off a cliff here.
I have everything.
Powder. tools. maps.
It's all hidden and arranged along the route.
Once we start.
there's no going back.
Death Squad ready!
Blades ready!
Blades forward!
Attack!
Left!
Right!
I'll find him.
Forget him.
He'd rather die trying to impress the new general
than grab the key to every counting
room and brothel in the world.
Good God. man.
The time is now!
I can't go
without him.
More the spoils for us!
We need his bow!
Harpoons!
Harpoons. now!
Fire!
- There!
- Move!
It's the last one!
Pull!
No. stop!
Hold!
There's too much tension.
Chain will break.
That way. That way.
Let him run!
Stop! Stop!
We need longer for the sleeping potion to work.
That way. That way.
We need to isolate it.
Separate it from the others.
Ring of fire!
The chain won't hold much longer!
We're losing it!
William. wait.
- Screaming arrows!
- Yes! Screaming arrows!
These arrows
will scream as the Tao Tei run.
Aim for the sound.
Aim inside the circle.
Blanket the whole area.
Fire!
Pull!
I'm only saving
you so I can kill you myself.
Grab an ax.
we're fighting blind.
Not yet.
I know what to do!
The fire's not
holding them back.
Die well. brother.
What the hell
are you doing?
She's listening.
Prepare black powder weapons!
Prepare to light the fuses!
Did it work?
Yes. The beast
was captured.
My friend...
He was unharmed.
Why did you go
over the Wall?
Trust.
Did I say it right?
Thank you.
Black powder.
It is a terrible weapon.
It would be better if you had never seen it.
I know very little
of the outside world.
But it seems to me.
the greed of men is not that
different from the Tao Tei.
Is that true?
The strong take
what they want.
Forget what you have seen.
Excellent!
Send it to the capital
immediately.
No!
We need to study it here.
If a Tao Tei is captured alive.
it must be sent to the Emperor.
This is an Imperial Order.
Hmm?
You're much
braver than they think.
You wounded?
I was looking for you.
To say thank you.
You feel good. huh?
Maybe you sing
a little song. eh?
I will join you.
We can sing together how
you saved the grateful chinos.
You saw what happened
out there and that's what you say?
I see black powder.
I see a man
forget his friends.
The black powder's
not going anywhere.
What goes nowhere is you.
You'll never get
what you want from this.
You think they see you
as some kind of hero?
A man of virtue?
Maybe you can fool them.
but I know what you are.
You know what you are.
A thief.
a liar.
and a killer.
And you can never undo
the things you have done.
and you will
never be anything.
Good to see you again.
amigo.
Tao Tei movement!
All troops to the Wall!
- Nothing?
- No.
How do you know
he won't betray us?
I don't.
They'll kill him. They'll kill him no matter what.
The time they spend
killing him
is time they are
not chasing us.
Careful with that.
There's powder here.
Tovar.
General. it goes
all the way through.
Tao Tei have
breached the Wall.
They're smarter
than we thought.
Summon my commanders
immediately!
Yes. General.
Have a look.
See if it's gone out.
Is it safe?
Of course it is.
Shake it off. man.
To work.
I thought
you said it was safe?
We're in. aren't we?
You're here.
We've come
to our senses. eh?
Ballard has
planned well.
Getting out is easy.
There's a gate.
20 miles west.
We dodge
the hill tribes.
We can make it.
They need us here.
They need more than us.
These people are doomed.
Don't be a fool.
I've been a fool.
I'm done with it.
Brother. please.
We've been fighting
for nothing.
For greed.
Amigo.
after all the blood.
and cold. and pain.
with this black powder
in our saddle bags.
we win.
You come with me.
I can't do that now.
Stay and fight.
William...
Think he's dead?
It'd take a lot
more than that.
All of the attacks
have been a diversion...
while they dug this tunnel.
They have breached the Wall.
Once they reach the capital...
nothing in the world
can stop them.
At a full gallop...
it's two days to the capital.
There is no way
we can catch them.
The wind is strong now.
It blows from the north
all day tomorrow.
We have to use the balloons.
If it works.
how long to Bianliang?
Six hours if the wind holds.
If we make it alive.
General...
none of the tests have worked.
Get ready!
Come on.
Hyah.
How did you capture it?
Your Excellency...
Your Excellency!
It's the magnet!
It keeps the beast
under control.
This is the most
important discovery...
in the history of the Tao Tei.
We will investigate
immediately.
Bring him here!
I tried to stop them...
You dare to speak to me?
I didn't do this.
And you came here
to trade.
And you knew nothing
of black powder.
What a fool
you must think I am.
If I was with them.
why would I be here?
I tried to stop them.
Liar!
You lie.
Some part of you knows
that's not true.
If I were not the General.
I would kill you myself.
General!
General.
Speak up!
I was there when it happened.
I saw him try to stop them.
Are you sure?
If you're lying.
I'll have your head!
I swear on my vow
to the Nameless Order!
Lock him up.
Send the cavalry.
Go after the two that got away.
Yes. General.
Which way.
left or right?
Go up and take a look
from the high ground.
Hyah!
No!
No! Bastard!
- Keep it steady!
- Yes. General!
Watch the powder!
What happened?
We have failed.
The Tao Tei
are in the Kingdom.
You are free to leave.
Take what you wish and go.
This was the
General's final order.
Where is she?
To do what?
To fight?
Is there a chance?
There's only one.
Kill the Queen.
or we all die.
Leave.
Tell the world
what you have seen.
and tell them
what is coming.
I'll need my bow.
If I'm to join you.
Strategist Wang!
Please take me with you.
He wishes
to join us.
Distance is the key.
The magnet is only effective
when close to the beast.
Therefore...
the effect weakens
as it gets further away.
You see I have it
under complete control.
Write down nine feet.
No.
No. don't throw
that thing near fire!
Steer to the rear
of the palace.
Above you!
Light a grenade!
Yes. sir!
Behind you!
I set you free.
And here I am.
There's the Queen!
They will not attack
while the Queen is feeding.
We have a chance!
Hold on!
State your purpose!
General Lin Mae
of the Nameless Order.
At your service!
What took you so long?
The Tao Tei have
overrun the city!
Thousands of soldiers
and innocents are dead.
You're too late!
Where is the captured Tao Tei?
In the dungeon!
We need it to kill the Queen.
Once she is dead.
the Tao Tei cannot function.
Without her signal.
their whole army will freeze.
There is
an underground canal here.
Has it been breached?
The Tao Tei should
all be above ground.
And the one we captured?
We load it up.
We feed it.
And it will return
to its Queen.
Good.
You'll have one hell of a scar. but you'll live.
He says you will live.
We'll come back for him.
They've broken through!
Patience. William.
And it will go to the Queen when it's done?
It should.
It will.
Let it in.
I can get a shot
from above.
Go! I'll hold them back.
Wait. Not yet.
Hit.
Go higher.
I'll get
a better shot.
General!
It's up to you now!
We have one black powder weapon left.
Give me the spear.
I've trained for this my whole life.
Trust.
I'll get you the shot.
I've got you.
So. how's life
without me?
A little slow.
You're a hero after all.
Well. it looks that way.
You seem pleased
with yourself.
And what are they giving you
for all of your troubles?
A bag of gold?
A victory parade
along the top of the Wall?
All the black powder
I can carry.
And a cavalry escort
to get me home safely.
Well. congratulations.
Thank you.
So what is this? You're here to rub my nose in it?
Well. would you
blame me?
The last time I saw you.
you left me for dead.
And the time before that.
I saved your life.
True.
You know. the Emperor
gave me a choice.
I could take
the black powder.
or I could take you.
Please tell me
you chose the powder?
I don't even
know you anymore.
The horses are
saddled and waiting.
Best we ride
before nightfall.
I'll be inside.
Don't leave
without me.
I came to say goodbye.
I understand congratulations are in order.
General of the northwest territory.
That's quite
an honor.
Seems you've made
your choice.
Him?
Believe me. I'm already thinking
about trading him back for the powder.
I heard that.
Perhaps we were
both wrong.
We are more similar
than I thought.
Thank you. General.
Are you sure you don't
want to go back?
Of course I do.
I just don't trust you to make it out of here alone.